# Repo of studying Vue 2

A simple implementation of vue can just add script tag and load Vue from it CDN:
```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/vue"></script>
```

See [index.html line 81](index.html#L81)

What I have have learnt:
* Start a Vue instance
* Data binding including 1 way and 2 ways binding
* Event handling
* Control

## Start a Vue Instance

We need to create a vue instance and provides element.

```javascript
new Vue({
    el: '#vue-app',
    data: data,
    methods: { ... }
});

```

The created vue instance will be shown in element with id: vue-app. It is binding data and provides methods to be called in the template.

## Template and data binding

All the content inside the element is considered template of vue. See [section#vue-app in index.html](index.html#L9)

### 1 Way bidning

We can display data to template.

#### Basic Text

The most basic syntax of template is using double curly braces (Mustache):

```html
<div>Name: {{ name }}</div>
```

Above template is showing below html content:

```html
<div>Name: Lay</div>
```

Because of data.name is Lay. Another example of text can be generated by function:

```html
<div>{{ showGendarMsg() }}</div>
```

#### Raw HTML

Basic text is not working when the data was came with html content. For example we have message: 'Hello&lt;b&gt;Lay&lt;/b&gt;!', it will not render html with &lt;b&gt; tag and show Lay with bold but shows the original html code to the user.

To solve these problem, we can use ```v-html``` as a property of html tags. Example:

```html
<p v-html="message"></p>
```

#### Bind to attribute

Data also can bind to attributes of html tags, for example:

```html
<button v-bind:disabled="stopFormSubmit">Submit</button>
```

or

```html
<button :disabled="stopFormSubmit">Submit</button>
```

There is a short-hard just put column ':'.

*stopFormSubmit* is a boolean in data.

### 2 Ways binding

A good example of 2 ways binding is bind input:

```html
<input type="text" v-model="greeting" >
```
It is equal to below html:

```html
<input type="text" :value="greeting" v-on:input="greeting = $event.target.value">
```

Refer Event Handling section for ```v-on:input```.

## Event Handling

We can define event by putting prefix ```v-on:``` with basic dom event. For example ```v-on:click```:

```html
<span v-on:click="age++">+</span>
<span v-on:click="age--">-</span> 
```

Above template introduces 2 buttons where increase / decrese the age.

Another example from previous section is another example of handing input event ```v-on:input```.

Further reading from the [documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/events.html).

## Control

There are some control to decide how show the content.

### v-if

We can define logic to show or hide content:

```html
<div v-if="country == 'Malaysia'">
    ...
</div>
```

### v-for

There is a loop to duplicate html content:

```html
<select v-model="stayInMalaysiaState" v-on:change="changeMalaysiaState($event)">
    <option>I don't stay in Malaysia</option>
    <option v-for="state in malaysiaStates" :value="state.label">{{ state.label }}</option>
</select>
```

Above template populate Malaysia states as option of the *select*.